## Tuesday 12.17

- neha response
- aisha response
- order media console
- 

### Coming soon!

- Do the stats screen on DFT.
- Figure out how the "Delete column 8" type labels should be formatted. I like the idea of translators being able to translate the whole string, and we do need to show the "Column" or "Row" label.

### General reminders

- Don't forget to be tactical, too.
- Pull back on the quirkiness at work.
- There are a lot of things happening right now. YOU are unfortunately the mature one.
- It's ok to be hopeful. It doesn't make you less wise.
- BIG PIE

### Random notes

-

#### Stressors

- I'm feeling behind on the rubric project
- I would like to ask for a raise but I'm not sure when or how or if it would jeopardize my job.
- Treatment of a friend at their workplace.

# Brag Doc meeting 2024.12.19

## Resources

- [Julia Evans brag doc blogpost](https://jvns.ca/blog/brag-documents/)
- [PRs you've authored on FE that were updated in 2024](https://github.com/VoiceThread/frontend/pulls?page=1&q=is%3Apr+author%3A%40me+updated%3A%3E%3D2024-01-01)

## Before you begin

Here are some helpful notes and questions for when you are thinking about and writing about your accomplishments.

### Questions to ask yourself

- What technologies did you use?
- What techniques did you use?
- Can you think of a way to quantify what you did? (It may not be possible, but what question would you ask VT if you could?)
- What categories could you put this accomplishment under? Ex: Professional/Learning, Tooling, Public-facing

### Framing

#### Quantity to Quality
FE often doesn't have user-facing info or statistics, but we do have internal reasons for our projects. Let's try to frame our work in that context, since it's accurate.

#### Framing a11y work

- Decrease changes of lawsuits
- Increate the range of potential customers
- VPATs, etc are more accurate
- More users can access our product with their preferred tools

## Responses

### Novella

- Dark mode
    - Design system techniques like tokens, variants
- Messages/Notifs
- Data viz/Charts
    - a11y in charting
    - HighCharts
    - Draft statement: VT's BE code that sends a monthly chart was unmaintainable. We were tasked with creating a FE replacement. As a result, we were able to remove unmaintainable BE code.
- Rubric
    Our users were having to leave VoiceThread to grade their students via rubrics, a common grading method. I was tasked with creating interactive rubric builder to put in our grading app. I, uh, am building it? Teachers will be able to create and grade rubrics, and students will know why they got the grade they did.
    - Managed 2-dimensional data structures (look this up)
    - Prioritizing accessibility, so users have to be able to know where they are in the table, be able to interact with cells, and know which cells have been acted on
    - Scoped slots are tricky

### Megan

#### Professional

- First SO questions

#### Tooling

- Moved codebase to TS
    - Typescript
- Implemented typed i18n
    - Draft statement: We include i18n strings in our FE codebase using string paths to a JSON file. This had some dev quality of life and production app downsides, such as no warnings when using paths to nonexistent strings. The strings live in a different repo so no way to know if the PRs that added strings to the repo would be merged before our work. I worked with devops to make i18n repo a dependency of the FE repo and rewrote our translation fn to take a callback rather than a string, because the callback could be typed with TS (and therefore typechecked) within the FE repo that leveraged typescript for autocompletion and null checking. Improved DX and addressed the issues above.
        - Task was to implement the approach
        - How did you come up with the approach? Knowing that I wanted to use NOT strings, and a callback fn was the best thing bc you can't check the value of strings, but you can check the properties of objects.

#### Public-facing

- Got rid of legacy myvoice, replaced with Vue-based UI
- Vue grader
- Revamp TB vue, adapted to new API
- Created accessible datepicker
- GDrive, GooglePicker library, BE support to comply with Google's new security settings
    - GooglePicker
    - Google auth
- Overhaul of global navbar
- Universal homepage changes (full circle but with better functionality)
- API upkeep and cleanup
- Student, Pay, Comment on Create features
- Misc stuffs

### Samantha

- Helped improve a11y in group member role management
    - Draft statement: The group role management part of the app had an accessibility issue that broke WCAG (which ones? 3.2.2? You can put the name of the rule here). It was using a dropdown menu that autosaved changes, as soon as you clicked the role it saved. This was confusing for users who rely on AT. Updated the UI to create a separate save button, ensuring that users will only be able to save changes when they're ready and it doesn't break the WCAG rules.
    - Expand on the result?
    - Explain briefly what WCAG is?
- Redesigned course analytics page for usability and consistency
    - Date fns library
- Buit the user account management pages
- Added toggle-able inbox sidebar to Universal player page
- Implemented action buttons in thread popovers and TBs
- Contributed to contract testing setup
    - Pact library
- Misc stuffs
