# Issue

tl;dr Using the Rubric API to set data now seems like it will require MANY calls. 

## What FE (I) originally assumed

On the frontend, we allow the user to edit the table to their liking, and then we validate it, and then we send that data to the BE. Given this FE interaction pattern, I would expect that I could send BE an updated rubric object with `rows` and `headers` keys, each of which contain an array of updated data. 

However, with the current BE code there is no method to update the rubric all at once. We can't overwrite the headers and rows with our own data.

## BE current code assumes that FE will...

- Use a specific method, along with a rowIndex (which we don't get in the GET call) on the endpoint to delete a row
- Use a specific method on the endpoint, along with a colIndex (which we don't get in the GET call) to delete a column
- Assume all indicators will be appended
- Assume all new rows will be appended

## Frustrations with current approach

- It's not a great developer experience. I'm already doing the work to display an accurate table and validate it for the user. To then need to deconstruct the table and figure out which data should be sent to which method on the API endpoint is really frustrating.
- I'll need to queue up n+1 number of calls which will mean a LOT of calls, so more waiting on the user end.
- The calls I'd queue up would inevitably be based on the table data I have at the time, not the table data after n - 1 calls had been made. Something may change on the BE and invalidate the data that's in my queued calls.

## Friendly guesses at context

- Maybe I'm just wrong and this is all fine and how it should work?
- Maybe there's a tragicly complicated code reason, like something to do with assigning IDs or names to the cells, that necessitates us doing it this way?
- Maybe this approach is expecting that users will have their rubric updated without ever hitting a save button, or that save buttons will be present in each cell? (Which we can't do because being quick to use AND accessible means we should almost certainly just have the ONE save button triggering the update)
- Maybe he is used to being fullstack and working in an environment where you don't need to use a save button for a whole forms, so partial updates aren't a problem?

## Friday update (given; CN said she could see the changes)

I did mostly non-visual work this week, so I don't have many big updates to display. However, if you go to a rubric edit path for a task that doesn't yet have a rubric, you can do the following flow:
1. Fill out the init form
2. Click the "Save and continue" button
- Expect to see the metadata (it's just giant text for QA and will be removed)
- Expect to see entries for name, max score, visibility, and rubric use. The entries won't have the actual data attached yet because I need to do a little more work to save the initial flow to the rubric endpoint as I have for the task endpoint.