Have to wait and confirm that each individual change 
Only one glitch and then the rubric would be pretty messed up
Users will commonly want to update one indicator.

Come up with a couple developer user stories.

I'm writing a message to the CN/AA DM.
Pose a couple of user stories
Propose what the API calls would look like
Note concerns about this

Propose something different

Strategies:
- Note how many extra confirmation dialogs would need to be shown.


## Concerns
- Making so many calls requires that we save every time there's a change (meaning we'd need to show extra confirmation dialogs and have extra loading spinners/not let people interact), or we save all the changes in a stack but risk data loss.

What will user commonly do. How would I send this to BE? Note concerns.

## Potential user stories

- Someone wants to update one indicator on a previously established rubric.
- Someone wants to add a whole new table all at once (headers, rows).
- Someone wants to update one inidcator and delete a row (2 calls).
- Someone wants to delete one row and delete one column (2 calls).
- Someone wants to delete at least 2 rows (1st call, then wait to know new row indices, then 2nd call).
- Someone wants to delete at least 2 columns (1st call, then wait to know new column indices, then 2nd call).
- Someone wants to update an indicator, add a column, and delete a row.
- (not MVP but seems inevitable) a user wants to switch the index of two columns or two rows.

## Goals

- I want to support users who are making several changes at once, using a method which is the least complex, is the most robust (ie not brittle), and requires the least wait time on the part of the user, and feels the smoothest on the part of the user (ie fewer confirmations and loading time).

I'm thinking about the best way to support user scenarios like the above, as well as the general goal I've written. The most straightforward way seems like it would be to allow FE to send updated rows/headers arrays and have those simply overwrite the current rows/headers arrays. Do you think this is possible? If not, what are the blockers?

## Message draft

I'm trying to update the rubrics via the rubric API, but I'm hitting a snag with the multiple ways BE expect to receive FE data. I want to support users who are making several changes at once, using a method which is the least complex, is the most robust (ie not brittle), and requires the least wait time on the part of the user, and feels the smoothest on the part of the user (ie fewer confirmations and loading time). 

**The biggest problem that we're facing is that a lot of the ways that these BE calls are written require us to wait until one call completes and then make another call, which can be slow and confusing for the user.** If a user navigates away in between calls, the rubric can end up in an unpredictable state because the user won't know which calls have gone through. 

A few common user scenarios might be the following:

- Someone wants to update one indicator on a previously established rubric (1 call - pretty straightforward with the current API).
- Someone wants to add a whole new table all at once (headers, rows)  (1 call - pretty straightforward with the current API).
- Someone wants to update one indicator and delete a row (2 calls; fine as long as the call order is accurate so they're not trying to update an indicator on the row they just deleted).
- Someone wants to delete one row and delete one column (2 calls).
- Someone wants to delete at least 2 rows (1st call, then wait to know new row indices, then 2nd call, etc.).
- Someone wants to delete at least 2 columns (1st call, then wait to know new column indices, then 2nd call, etc.).
- Someone wants to update an indicator, add a column, and delete a row (2 calls; probably fine as long as call order is fine).
- (not MVP but seems inevitable) a user wants to switch the index of two columns or two rows (as long as these actions aren't combined with any other actions it's probably fine).
- (not MVP but seems inevitable) a user can't add a column in between two columns.
- (not MVP but seems inevitable) a user can't add a row in between two rows.

One option around this would be to save the table after every interaction (e.g. updating an indicator, adding a blank row, etc), but that has some serious downsides. There would be exponentially more calls involved, and more wait time as the user can't interact with the table while the call is being made and the table is being refreshed. It would also mean that the rubric would necessarily have to be saved while invalid, because a user can't update all the points in a column at once (I think we're planning on allowing save on invalid rubrics, but this sort of takes it to an extreme).

I'm thinking about the best way to support user scenarios like the above, as well as the general goal I've written. The most straightforward way seems like it would be to allow FE to send updated rows/headers arrays and have those simply overwrite the current rows/headers arrays. Do you think this is possible? If not, what are the blockers?