Would it be possible, rather than creating a rubric at the time that we click createRubric, can we use 

What we want to do is use the rubric editor to save the rubric with its taskId

As per the designs, we want a LINK to create or edit the rubric. This means that we would need to be able to provide a link at the time the edict/create rubric button shows. It also means that we wouldn't be making a call to the task endpoint at athat point in time. Rather, we'd be making a clal to the task endpoin when the user was donewith the create rubric flow. So, no empty rubric would be necessary. But the ability to manually specify the rubricId that's attached to the task would be necessary.

W'd make a call to the rubric endpoint to create a rubric, and we'd send the parentId of the taskId and parentType of task.

## Idea: Screencast showing what I've built and how I'd expect to be able to interact with the backend

- First show the Figma (wizard option, rubric options dialog with external links)
- Show wizard radio options
- Choose yes
- Click radio options
- Click create (To do this I need to hook up the edit flow screen so they can at least see the save button. Right?)

He's creating an empty rubric and sending it back, and I'm wanting to create the rubric when the user saves the rubric in Universal. The reason I'm wanting to do that is because the design has links to a new tab, and not buttons and the create flow in the Wizard. For now, sending through just the add button or the edit button is enough.

You can't make the frontend flow without knowing the backend, so it's ok to have waited to see what they were going to do.

Things I can show her:

X - Wizard radio button choices
X - Wizard links to create and edit
X - Form with the rubric's first part
X - Rubric editor (with some info if there is already info)

Here's what I have now, here's what I have that matches the design, here's what isn't implemented now, here's what I'm waiting on from BE. Given that, do you want to see what I have or is it better to wait?

Hi Claudette, text wall incoming (hopefully there won't be so many text walls next week). 

I made a couple of builds for Wizard and Universal with where we're at right now. They're up on the plan `ncrubric5`, or on my dev.

What you can poke at now:
- Wizard assn with a create link: use task id 26974 (or on my dev at https://dev-novella.voicethread.net/wizard/26974)
- Wizard assn with an edit link: use task id 26638 (or on my dev at https://dev-novella.voicethread.net/wizard/26638)
~ caveat for edit: there are two buttons, because BE is sending through a "delete" button. If you click the second button, it should open the dialog with the edit link. Per the most recent Figma I don't think we'll need the delete button since we are doing the rubric options dialog, and I don't see any delete button in the rubric options dialog. If we're sure we won't want the delete button, I can ask BE to remove it from the manifest.
- First part of the rubric creator flow: There are two ways to initaialize the rubric create flow. 1) Click the create link from Wizard id 26974. If you do this, you'll see an arg in the URL `?taskId=26974`. Hopefully we'll be able to use this to set the parentId and attach the rubric to the task. I've put a [comment on the VoiceThread](https://voicethread.com/myvoice/thread/28508370/173589791/155879823/) discussing this with BE, but I'm not exactly sure how this will shake out. 2) Navigate directly to `/myvoice/rubric/edit`. This route will let you start the rubric creator flow just for poking at it, but will only be useful down the line when folks can create rubrics that aren't attached to tasks.
- Table editor: You can get to the rubric table in edit mode by clicking the edit link from Wizard id 26638. This will be helpful for starting to give feedback on things like editing the header, criteria, and indicator cells, adding and deleting rows and columns, etc. Note that the rubric at 26638 doesn't have any columns or rows yet (it just happens to be an empty rubric), but you can add (and remove) columns and rows as you wish. For a table that already has some content, Adam set up the rubric 25621 (also on my dev at https://dev-novella.voicethread.net/myvoice/rubric/edit/25621).
- Wizard assn where you don't want to use a rubric: use task id 27081 (or on my dev at https://devnovella.voicethread.net/wizard/27081). Here we've done a bit of work to support the nested assessment type options and maximum points possible input, so a general QA of Wizard wherever we typically have nested options would be helpful.

What I'll be working on next week:
For next week, I'll be working to get the rubric presets for the different assessment types which will tell the table how many columns to start out with and populate them with some placeholder info, and to save updates to existing rubrics.

So the way the manifest-driven FE works right now is it will show a button for each of the buttons we receive from the BE. So if we want a delete button in the rubric options dialog, we'll need figure out a 