## What can I show and/or tell CN?

- I reworked the "Create rubric," "Edit rubric," and "remove rubric" links/button so that the "Create rubric" link is inside a dialog, but the "Edit rubric" link and "remove rubric" dialog appear directly under the "Use rubric" radio button. Example: https://dev-novella.voicethread.net/wizard/26638
- I hooked up the "remove rubric" button so that it will remove a rubric from its task. Example: https://dev-novella.voicethread.net/wizard/27546
- Responded to comments on PRs involving the above, as well as the stuff I demo'ed last week (which was in PR but not yet approved)
- Made the "Save and continue" button on the initial screen of the rubric create flow attach the rubric to the task (I haven't written the units or worked out all the code-related kinks so while your experience shouldn't change, I'll spend time on doing this next week). 

Example flow for attaching/removing : 
1. Navigate to a Wizard assignment like https://dev-novella.voicethread.net/wizard/27546
2. Click into the "Rubric options" dialog
3. Click "Create rubric"
- Expect the rubric to open in a new tab
- Expect the URL to be /rubric/edit?taskId=<rubricId>
4. Fill out the information on the initial screen.
5. Click "Save and continue"
- Expect the see the rubric ID to become filled in at the top and the taskId to remain the same as the Wizard taskId
- Expect to see a blank rubric (it doesn't reflect the metadata you entered on the initial screen yet)
6. Head back to the Wizard assignment tab and refresh the page
- Expect to see the "Edit rubric" link and the "Remove rubric" button.
7. Click the "Edit rubric" link.
- Expect the rubric to open in a new tab
- Expect the URL to be /rubric/edit/<rubricId>
- Expect the see the rubric ID at the top of the page and the taskId to remain the same as the Wizard taskId
- Expect to see a blank rubric (again, it doesn't reflect the metadata you entered on the initial screen yet)
8. Head back to the Wiard assignment and click "Remove rubric"
- Expect to see the "Rubric options" dialog button.

## Things to figure out about the rubric create flow
- If someone goes to /rubric/edit/rubricId, then they'll see the rubric edit screen. Why would we want this to happen? Because they already have metadata stored. But what if someone is on the rubric edit screen and they want to go back to the init screen? We'd make a call to the task endpoint and erase their metadata and rubric, I guess. So maybe when on the RubricView we could check if they have a rubricId in the route. If they do AND there is certain rubric metadata present such as assignment_type and visibility and grade_use, then we show them the edit screen.
How could I check this idea? I could take one of the assignments w/ rubric that I've already made but which has no content, fetch it, and see what the API returns.