## Update for CN

Good morning! The build I promised is up. `26638` is a good task ID to use (though you can use any assignment you've created, it shouldn't matter ofc). The plan is still `ncrubric5`.

This build should:
- Allow you to save the table
- Accurately represend the assignment type, whether it's visible to students, and whether it's used for grading

Note that if you save the table and then update it, things will still get added on. I've put in Adam's BE fix locally, but am still having some issues getting it to work as expected. I'll hopefully have a build up for that soon, though!

Flow: 
1. Navigate to https://dev-novella.voicethread.net/wizard/26638 (if there's a rubric already attached, click "Remove rubric" to get rid of it).
2. Click "Rubric options" and the create link.
- Expect the rubric route with the taskId to open in a new tab.
3. Fill out the initial screen in the rubric create flow and click "Save and continue."
- Expect to see the assignment type you chose displayed
- Expect to see the max score align with the assignment type you chose
- Expect to see whether or not the assignment is visible to students
- Expect to see whether or not the assignment will be used for grading
- Expect to still see the table with just +row and +column (getting this part in has been trickier than I had hoped, but still upcoming ofc).
4. Add rows and columns as you wish
5. Click "Save rubric."
- Expect to see the "Save rubric" button go back to being disabled and no "has unsaved changes" warning.
6. Refresh the page.
- If this was the first edit to the table, then expect to see the correct table. Otherwise, expect to see cols/rows may be added (again, working on this).
