projects/rubrics/interactionsWithMysoginists.md, before:

## Feelings about CN

I understand that when it comes to even matters of product and vision, you'll inevitably side with BE over FE. And frankly, I don't care. I will continue the code gymnastics FE is now accustomed to in the absence of strong BE and Product support for FE. I have always supported VT's mission and users and will continue to do so.

Others have made you aware of his behavior in years past (please don't bother refuting this, it won't land well). Nothing has happened. I've made my peace with that. I'm aware that he will continue unabated. What I am asking for is a change of platform. Luckily we make just such a platform.


## Official write-up

I have had 4 calls with Adam now. Each call has been consisted of Adam lecturing and explain basic topics after I have indicated that I understand. During the latest call, unfortunately, he chose to escalate this behavior. 

I requested that two additional keys be sent with additional information so that I can work in a different SPA and edit Rubrics outside of the Wizard assignment context. The first key was the one with the rubric "type" (as I said during our meeting, this could be called anything), being passFail, percentage, or points. The second key was the number of points from the task. It is important to note that this request was just that - a neutral request. The text of the request was as follows:

"So I know you said you didn't want to share info between manifest elements on the backend, which is fine. But can we make it so I can save the rubric type (passfail, percentage, or points) and the number of available points to the rubric itself? When editing the rubric a second time (esp once we allow users to create and edit rubrics from outside assignments), I'll need to be know this info so I can adjust some UI on the frontend." 

Based on most of my previous experiences at VoiceThread, I assumed this would lead to a voice call with (as is the VT way) some great collaborative discussion and ideation. Unfortunately Adam declined to give me a technical reason why this wasn't possible, and instead began lecturing me on "why we're here," demanding to "see some pictures" (I hope he meant to say "design" or "Figma"), demanding I explain the design and product reasoning behind the Figma, and badgering (and that's putting it generously) me with questions unrelated to my original request. When I relented and said, "fine, thanks, I'll work with what I've got," he began insisting on calling you into the (very notably non-emergency) call, though you had stated in the WFH Slack channel that you'd be out of office. I told him that you were out of office and I felt it was disrespectful to pull an OOO colleague into a non-emergency call, and agreed we could resume next week. I wished him a good rest of his week and hung up. We have had no further communication (other than him letting me know he updated a VoiceThread with comments, which is fine).

I have demonstrated consistently over the past 5 years that I am willing to be disagreed with, that I do not mind being proven wrong, that I will faithfully implement visions that I pushed back on, and that I will happily continue to work with people with whom I disagree. Fortunately, the majority of my interactions at VoiceThread have been with people who are respectful and collaborative. Unforuntately, in our calls, Adam has not used the voice chats as an opportunity for the spontenity, rapid ideation, or productive reparte we usually engage in at VoiceThread. Instead, he repeats the same condescending talking points, and explains basic computing concepts even when I've indicated I understand. When asked for something with which he disagrees, he has treated me as though I'm a hostile witness in a courtroom drama, peppering me with unproductive and often unrelated questions and whattabout-isms, without not waiting for answers or engaging in discussion. During the latest call, he increasingly raised his voice until he was yelling at me, and his tone became increasingly hostile. For my part, I'm sure that, during the end of our most recent call, my voice betrayed some annoyance at being repeatedly talked over. 

## More minor grievances

He wrote "voice?" in a thread where we were talking a subject unrelated to the word "voice," and when I responded, "I'm sorry I don't understand what voice means.," he said, "do you want to talk… with your voice? :wink:". This may have been fine if followed immediately with an explanation of what he actually, meant, but unfortunately he didn't care to explain. Trying to be a team player, I asked someone else what he may have meant, and politely responded with my guess, "Oh slack huddle sure." I was sure others would laugh this obfuscation off as his brand of humor and my naivete, so noted and carried on without malice. Unfortunately the unwillingness to answer questions given or productively engage proved to be a common theme in his behavior.

He kept repeating that he wanted to "to collaborate, to hash things out, like cats and dogs working together" (that is a direct quote from the first call we had, where he lectured me on the basic concept of tabular data). To me this analogy demonstrates his vision of FE and BE as entities with separate, competing interests and an innate mutual dislike. Perhaps that is the reason for his defensiveness? In any case, the first part of his assertion proved false.


## To Megan

I'd like to share something with you that happened at work with Adam. I'm sharing it here because I'm not sure I feel safe sharing at work. If you don't think you can read this without sharing it with people at VT, then please stop reading. I will not be offended - I understand and respect the desire to protect oneself through not engaging.

----

I made what I assumed was a request for two additional keys on the rubric API return, and Adam pulled me into a voice call where he started engaging in hostile, beligerent behavior almost immediately. He kept cutting me off, yelling at me, and demanding I explain Product and Design decisions. I tried to answer these, though they're obviously areas I don't have full knowledge of, but again kept being cut off with questions and rebuttals. Eventually I told him I'd work with what I have and suggested we continue next week when Claudette was back in the office. I'm sure I sounded scared and annoyed when I said this, but I never raised my voice at him, never cut him off, and never asked misleading questions. To be honest, I mostly froze and stammered.

Based on his later comments on a VoiceThread, I can only imagine he was disappointed at not having been included in the product development of the rubric feature and has some big feelings about how things should change. This is, of course, conjecture - that entire process is of course not something I was privvy to, but for some reason my request seems to have been a catalyst.

Given my overwhelmingly positive collaborative experiences at VT I felt - still feel - blindsided by his behavior. I hope this is an overclarification, but: I am not upset at being told no, or disagreed with, or proven wrong. I faithfully implement visions that I don't fully share, and happily work with colleagues with whom I disagree. However, I do need to be treated with respect, and that does not involve being yelled at, cut off, or demands for answering questions that shouldn't go to me. In order to work around his behavior, I'm going to try to continue to work with him in a async-only format. As you and I have discussed, I enjoy the work on the rubric feature and on exploratory features, in general. I would be disappointed but not entirely surprised if I were pulled off the project and denied the opportunity to work on new features that require BE support.

### To Megan, but much longer

I have had 4 calls with Adam now. Each call has been consisted of Adam lecturing and explain basic topics after I have indicated that I understand. Having been in the workplace for decades I'm not unfamiliar with this behavior, so I've just carried on without too many thoughts about it. During the latest call, unfortunately, he chose to escalate this behavior.

I requested that two additional keys be sent with additional information so that I can work in a different SPA and edit Rubrics outside of the Wizard assignment context. The first key was the one with the rubric "type" (as I said during our meeting, this could be called anything), being passFail, percentage, or points. The second key was the number of points from the task. It is important to note that this request was just that - a neutral request. The text of the request was as follows:

"So I know you said you didn't want to share info between manifest elements on the backend, which is fine. But can we make it so I can save the rubric type (passfail, percentage, or points) and the number of available points to the rubric itself? When editing the rubric a second time (esp once we allow users to create and edit rubrics from outside assignments), I'll need to be know this info so I can adjust some UI on the frontend." 

Based on most of my previous experiences at VoiceThread, I assumed this would lead to a voice call with (as is the VT way) some great collaborative discussion and ideation. Instead I was blindsided by increasingly beligerent, unprofessional behavior. Adam declined to give me a technical reason why my request wasn't possible, and instead began lecturing me on "why we're here," demanding to "see some pictures" (I hope he meant to say "design" or "Figma"), demanding that I explain Design and Product's reasoning behind the Figma, and badgering (and that's putting it generously) me with questions unrelated to my original request. My responses were almost universally cut off with him talking and then yelling over me. When I relented and said, "fine, thanks, I'll work with what I've got," he began insisting on calling CN into the (very notably non-emergency) call, though she had stated in the WFH Slack channel that she'd be out of office. I told him that she was out of office and I felt it was disrespectful to pull an OOO colleague into a non-emergency call, and agreed we could resume next week. I wished him a good rest of his week and hung up. We have had no further communication (other than him letting me know he updated a VoiceThread with comments, which is fine).

I have demonstrated consistently over the past 5 years that I am willing to be disagreed with, that I do not mind being proven wrong, that I will faithfully implement visions that I pushed back on, and that I will happily continue to work with people with whom I disagree. Fortunately, the majority of my interactions at VoiceThread have been with people who are respectful and collaborative. Unforuntately, in our calls, Adam has not used the voice chats as an opportunity for the spontenity, rapid ideation, or productive reparte we usually engage in at VoiceThread. Instead, he repeats the same condescending talking points, and explains basic computing concepts even when I've indicated I understand. When asked for something with which he disagrees, he has treated me as though I'm a hostile witness in a courtroom drama, peppering me with unproductive and often unrelated questions and whattabout-isms, without not waiting for answers or engaging in discussion. During the latest call, he increasingly raised his voice until he was yelling at me, and his tone became increasingly hostile. For my part, I'm sure that, during the end of our most recent call, my voice betrayed annoyance at being repeatedly talked over. I did not cut him off, talk over him, or raise my voice.

I sincerely hope I needn't say this, but I will just for clarity: I do not care whether my requests are granted (and this latest request was literally a request - I throw out ideas and requests to you all the time and we talk about it and see what sticks. It's lovely!), my ideas don't need to be the ones chosen. What I care about is being treated as an equal worthy of respect. I care about collaboration. I care about being listened to (not obeyed - I find people, especially those on the winning end of a heierarchical relationship sometimes conflate these).


## Potential responses to AA

If giving me populated types/points keys is infeasible for you, I'm happy to take empty keys with string types, which I'll populate and manage. If that's infeasible for you, I will work with what I have. I need only a yes or no answer.

I'm not comfortable with the way you spoke to me during our previous meetings. Please use text (DM is fine) or add your technical feedback to the existing VoiceThread.

I'm not open to a call right now, but you're welcome to DM, leave comments on the Trello ticket, or add to the existing VoiceThread.

## Basura

When it comes to disagreements, things have almost always been resolved in favor of BE (or anyone) over FE, and of men over women. I do not expect this to change, and I've proven I'm willing to work around it and be a sincere, community-minded colleague despite it.

He took what was a clearly-stated, neutral request, and decided to respond in an outsized manner.

Rachel would tell me she doesn't think something is feasible but will look at it more and get back.

He's new to BE team? New to the way they work?

Him asking for a voice call is not the problem. It's the unprofessional communication once on the call.

---
I made a small request but received a far outsized response. Happy that my small request prompted some deep thought.

### From "To Megan" section

I do not expect you to do anything about this, or support me in objecting to his behavior. I am telling you so that if you are called in to take over the project (and that won't be my choice), you'll know why. Although I believe you have far more political power at work, I believe you have just as much to lose as I do, and I don't expect you to put yourself at risk by objecting to his behavior. Frankly, I'm not even sure I'll tell CN. I care about having an income and healthcare, and I also care deeply about the students and teachers we serve.

I'm sharing this with you so that if you're called to take over the Rubric project (and that won't be my choice - you know how committed I am to working on it and other kind of the adventurous projects!), or if I get pulled off further projects that require BE support, you'll know why.

## Potential response to Voicethread

As a point of clarification, my request was to return a couple of extra keys (the types and points) from the Rubric API. I'm working on implementing what's in the Figma based on previous conversations with product and design.

That said, I don't have any particular opinions on changes to the product or design, but it sounds like you've raised some good questions here. Thanks for the effort and deep thought. As usual, I'll keep my eye on the VoiceThreads and the Figma and am eager to see where things go!

Commit message:

chore: Update March 6 call details

projects/rubrics/interactionsWithMysoginists.md, after:

## Dates n Times

The call with AA was on Thursday March 6, 2025 at 11:03AM. It lasted for 11mins. It took place via a Slack huddle

## Feelings about CN

I understand that when it comes to even matters of product and vision, you'll inevitably side with BE over FE. And frankly, I don't care. I will continue the code gymnastics FE is now accustomed to in the absence of strong BE and Product support for FE. I have always supported VT's mission and users and will continue to do so.

Others have made you aware of his behavior in years past (please don't bother refuting this, it won't land well). Nothing has happened. I've made my peace with that. I'm aware that he will continue unabated. What I am asking for is a change of platform. Luckily we make just such a platform.


## Official write-up

I have had 4 calls with Adam now. Each call has been consisted of Adam lecturing and explain basic topics after I have indicated that I understand. During the latest call, unfortunately, he chose to escalate this behavior. 

I requested that two additional keys be sent with additional information so that I can work in a different SPA and edit Rubrics outside of the Wizard assignment context. The first key was the one with the rubric "type" (as I said during our meeting, this could be called anything), being passFail, percentage, or points. The second key was the number of points from the task. It is important to note that this request was just that - a neutral request. The text of the request was as follows:

"So I know you said you didn't want to share info between manifest elements on the backend, which is fine. But can we make it so I can save the rubric type (passfail, percentage, or points) and the number of available points to the rubric itself? When editing the rubric a second time (esp once we allow users to create and edit rubrics from outside assignments), I'll need to be know this info so I can adjust some UI on the frontend." 

Based on most of my previous experiences at VoiceThread, I assumed this would lead to a voice call with (as is the VT way) some great collaborative discussion and ideation. Unfortunately Adam declined to give me a technical reason why this wasn't possible, and instead began lecturing me on "why we're here," demanding to "see some pictures" (I hope he meant to say "design" or "Figma"), demanding I explain the design and product reasoning behind the Figma, and badgering (and that's putting it generously) me with questions unrelated to my original request. When I relented and said, "fine, thanks, I'll work with what I've got," he began insisting on calling you into the (very notably non-emergency) call, though you had stated in the WFH Slack channel that you'd be out of office. I told him that you were out of office and I felt it was disrespectful to pull an OOO colleague into a non-emergency call, and agreed we could resume next week. I wished him a good rest of his week and hung up. We have had no further communication (other than him letting me know he updated a VoiceThread with comments, which is fine).

I have demonstrated consistently over the past 5 years that I am willing to be disagreed with, that I do not mind being proven wrong, that I will faithfully implement visions that I pushed back on, and that I will happily continue to work with people with whom I disagree. Fortunately, the majority of my interactions at VoiceThread have been with people who are respectful and collaborative. Unforuntately, in our calls, Adam has not used the voice chats as an opportunity for the spontenity, rapid ideation, or productive reparte we usually engage in at VoiceThread. Instead, he repeats the same condescending talking points, and explains basic computing concepts even when I've indicated I understand. When asked for something with which he disagrees, he has treated me as though I'm a hostile witness in a courtroom drama, peppering me with unproductive and often unrelated questions and whattabout-isms, without not waiting for answers or engaging in discussion. During the latest call, he increasingly raised his voice until he was yelling at me, and his tone became increasingly hostile. For my part, I'm sure that, during the end of our most recent call, my voice betrayed some annoyance at being repeatedly talked over. 

## More minor grievances

He wrote "voice?" in a thread where we were talking a subject unrelated to the word "voice," and when I responded, "I'm sorry I don't understand what voice means.," he said, "do you want to talk… with your voice? :wink:". This may have been fine if followed immediately with an explanation of what he actually, meant, but unfortunately he didn't care to explain. Trying to be a team player, I asked someone else what he may have meant, and politely responded with my guess, "Oh slack huddle sure." I was sure others would laugh this obfuscation off as his brand of humor and my naivete, so noted and carried on without malice. Unfortunately the unwillingness to answer questions given or productively engage proved to be a common theme in his behavior.

He kept repeating that he wanted to "to collaborate, to hash things out, like cats and dogs working together" (that is a direct quote from the first call we had, where he lectured me on the basic concept of tabular data). To me this analogy demonstrates his vision of FE and BE as entities with separate, competing interests and an innate mutual dislike. Perhaps that is the reason for his defensiveness? In any case, the first part of his assertion proved false.


## To Megan

I'd like to share something with you that happened at work with Adam. I'm sharing it here because I'm not sure I feel safe sharing at work. If you don't think you can read this without sharing it with people at VT, then please stop reading. I will not be offended - I understand and respect the desire to protect oneself through not engaging.

----

I made what I assumed was a request for two additional keys on the rubric API return, and Adam pulled me into a voice call where he started engaging in hostile, beligerent behavior almost immediately. He kept cutting me off, yelling at me, and demanding I explain Product and Design decisions. I tried to answer these, though they're obviously areas I don't have full knowledge of, but again kept being cut off with questions and rebuttals. Eventually I told him I'd work with what I have and suggested we continue next week when Claudette was back in the office. I'm sure I sounded scared and annoyed when I said this, but I never raised my voice at him, never cut him off, and never asked misleading questions. To be honest, I mostly froze and stammered.

Based on his later comments on a VoiceThread, I can only imagine he was disappointed at not having been included in the product development of the rubric feature and has some big feelings about how things should change. This is, of course, conjecture - that entire process is of course not something I was privvy to, but for some reason my request seems to have been a catalyst.

Given my overwhelmingly positive collaborative experiences at VT I felt - still feel - blindsided by his behavior. I hope this is an overclarification, but: I am not upset at being told no, or disagreed with, or proven wrong. I faithfully implement visions that I don't fully share, and happily work with colleagues with whom I disagree. However, I do need to be treated with respect, and that does not involve being yelled at, cut off, or demands for answering questions that shouldn't go to me. In order to work around his behavior, I'm going to try to continue to work with him in a async-only format. As you and I have discussed, I enjoy the work on the rubric feature and on exploratory features, in general. I would be disappointed but not entirely surprised if I were pulled off the project and denied the opportunity to work on new features that require BE support.

### To Megan, but much longer

I have had 4 calls with Adam now. Each call has been consisted of Adam lecturing and explain basic topics after I have indicated that I understand. Having been in the workplace for decades I'm not unfamiliar with this behavior, so I've just carried on without too many thoughts about it. During the latest call, unfortunately, he chose to escalate this behavior.

I requested that two additional keys be sent with additional information so that I can work in a different SPA and edit Rubrics outside of the Wizard assignment context. The first key was the one with the rubric "type" (as I said during our meeting, this could be called anything), being passFail, percentage, or points. The second key was the number of points from the task. It is important to note that this request was just that - a neutral request. The text of the request was as follows:

"So I know you said you didn't want to share info between manifest elements on the backend, which is fine. But can we make it so I can save the rubric type (passfail, percentage, or points) and the number of available points to the rubric itself? When editing the rubric a second time (esp once we allow users to create and edit rubrics from outside assignments), I'll need to be know this info so I can adjust some UI on the frontend." 

Based on most of my previous experiences at VoiceThread, I assumed this would lead to a voice call with (as is the VT way) some great collaborative discussion and ideation. Instead I was blindsided by increasingly beligerent, unprofessional behavior. Adam declined to give me a technical reason why my request wasn't possible, and instead began lecturing me on "why we're here," demanding to "see some pictures" (I hope he meant to say "design" or "Figma"), demanding that I explain Design and Product's reasoning behind the Figma, and badgering (and that's putting it generously) me with questions unrelated to my original request. My responses were almost universally cut off with him talking and then yelling over me. When I relented and said, "fine, thanks, I'll work with what I've got," he began insisting on calling CN into the (very notably non-emergency) call, though she had stated in the WFH Slack channel that she'd be out of office. I told him that she was out of office and I felt it was disrespectful to pull an OOO colleague into a non-emergency call, and agreed we could resume next week. I wished him a good rest of his week and hung up. We have had no further communication (other than him letting me know he updated a VoiceThread with comments, which is fine).

I have demonstrated consistently over the past 5 years that I am willing to be disagreed with, that I do not mind being proven wrong, that I will faithfully implement visions that I pushed back on, and that I will happily continue to work with people with whom I disagree. Fortunately, the majority of my interactions at VoiceThread have been with people who are respectful and collaborative. Unforuntately, in our calls, Adam has not used the voice chats as an opportunity for the spontenity, rapid ideation, or productive reparte we usually engage in at VoiceThread. Instead, he repeats the same condescending talking points, and explains basic computing concepts even when I've indicated I understand. When asked for something with which he disagrees, he has treated me as though I'm a hostile witness in a courtroom drama, peppering me with unproductive and often unrelated questions and whattabout-isms, without not waiting for answers or engaging in discussion. During the latest call, he increasingly raised his voice until he was yelling at me, and his tone became increasingly hostile. For my part, I'm sure that, during the end of our most recent call, my voice betrayed annoyance at being repeatedly talked over. I did not cut him off, talk over him, or raise my voice.

I sincerely hope I needn't say this, but I will just for clarity: I do not care whether my requests are granted (and this latest request was literally a request - I throw out ideas and requests to you all the time and we talk about it and see what sticks. It's lovely!), my ideas don't need to be the ones chosen. What I care about is being treated as an equal worthy of respect. I care about collaboration. I care about being listened to (not obeyed - I find people, especially those on the winning end of a heierarchical relationship sometimes conflate these).


## Potential responses to AA

If giving me populated types/points keys is infeasible for you, I'm happy to take empty keys with string types, which I'll populate and manage. If that's infeasible for you, I will work with what I have. I need only a yes or no answer.

I'm not comfortable with the way you spoke to me during our previous meetings. Please use text (DM is fine) or add your technical feedback to the existing VoiceThread.

I'm not open to a call right now, but you're welcome to DM, leave comments on the Trello ticket, or add to the existing VoiceThread.

## Basura

When it comes to disagreements, things have almost always been resolved in favor of BE (or anyone) over FE, and of men over women. I do not expect this to change, and I've proven I'm willing to work around it and be a sincere, community-minded colleague despite it.

He took what was a clearly-stated, neutral request, and decided to respond in an outsized manner.

Rachel would tell me she doesn't think something is feasible but will look at it more and get back.

He's new to BE team? New to the way they work?

Him asking for a voice call is not the problem. It's the unprofessional communication once on the call.

---
I made a small request but received a far outsized response. Happy that my small request prompted some deep thought.

### From "To Megan" section

I do not expect you to do anything about this, or support me in objecting to his behavior. I am telling you so that if you are called in to take over the project (and that won't be my choice), you'll know why. Although I believe you have far more political power at work, I believe you have just as much to lose as I do, and I don't expect you to put yourself at risk by objecting to his behavior. Frankly, I'm not even sure I'll tell CN. I care about having an income and healthcare, and I also care deeply about the students and teachers we serve.

I'm sharing this with you so that if you're called to take over the Rubric project (and that won't be my choice - you know how committed I am to working on it and other kind of the adventurous projects!), or if I get pulled off further projects that require BE support, you'll know why.

## Potential response to Voicethread

As a point of clarification, my request was to return a couple of extra keys (the types and points) from the Rubric API. I'm working on implementing what's in the Figma based on previous conversations with product and design.

That said, I don't have any particular opinions on changes to the product or design, but it sounds like you've raised some good questions here. Thanks for the effort and deep thought. As usual, I'll keep my eye on the VoiceThreads and the Figma and am eager to see where things go!
